>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about
React perf tools then, okay?
So go into ClientApp.jsx.
And I want you to import Perf from
react-addons-perf.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna say window.Perf = Perf.
>> Brian Holt: And then we're gonna say
Perf.start.
>> Brian Holt: So
what we've done here is this is not
something that you're gonna ship to
production, this is only something you're
gonna temporarily bring in the perf tools,
do your profiling, and
then remove it from your code, okay?
So I brought in the perf tools,
I set it on the window so
I can directly mess with it, and then I
also told it to start recording as soon
as the page loads.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
what I want you to do now,
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
local host 8080.
>> Brian Holt: So
now the perf tools are running, right?
So what I'm gonna do now is I'm
just gonna browse around a little
bit.
>> Brian Holt: And so I can kind of
get like a nice profile going.
>> Brian Holt: I'm just
gonna click into a bunch of these.
Go to the home page.
>> Brian Holt: Hmm,
yeah, that's true.
>> Brian Holt: So,
>> Brian Holt: Now what I'm gonna just say
is I'm gonna say Perf.stop, okay?
So now it stopped recording.
And then I'm gonna say Perf.printWasted.
>> Brian Holt: So that actually wasn't too
bad.
>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about what we
actually did first.
When I was clicking around,
it's doing a bunch of renders,
it's doing a bunch of destroying and
re-upping of components, right?
All of that different stuff.
When I call print wasted,
it's going to print out times that it was
running the render method and
nothing changed, right?
Which is considered a wasted render.
Normally, this is not a problem.
What you see here,
where I'm wasting 0.1 millisecond,
you don't care, right?
>> Brian Holt: You're really worried about
things that are wasting
tens of milliseconds,
hundreds of milliseconds, right?
And God forbid seconds, right?
So like this one wasted two render counts,
this one wasted one, no big deal.
If you have a performance profile
like that, no big deal at all.
However, wait,
I'm gonna refresh the page again.
I'm gonna say all browse all.
And then I'm gonna, so
now it's recording again,
and I'm just gonna type a bunch of stuff,
and then untype it and
then type more, and type home and
then, now I'm gonna go in and
say,
>> Brian Holt: Perf.stop and
then I'm gonna say Perf.printWasted.
And you're gonna see here I have
138 render counts that were wasted.
And now we're starting to waste
23.25 milliseconds, right?
As you can see that's a problem, right?
That's going to spiral out of control,
in particular, if people are typing along
things and then untyping them and
all that kind of stuff, right?
So right now this is a small perf
problem but as ShowCard becomes more and
more complicated, it's going to balloon
into a very large perf problem.
And if someone's on a really
crappy Android phone, that's,
I mean this is a brand new MacBook Pro,
right?
So it's gonna be fine but
a crappy Android phone, that's gonna be
a way bigger amount of stuff wasted.
>> Brian Holt: So
again, yeah, this search.ShowCard,
this 59 number,
that's how many times it rendered and
nothing changed, right?
So what's nice about this is
ShowCard is totally static, right?
It doesn’t really need to re-render.
Once it renders the first time,
it doesn’t change, right?
There’s nothing dynamic about it.
So this is a really easy
performance optimization here.
So I want you to open ShowCard real quick.
Because ES6 classes don't
have life cycle methods,
we're gonna have to convert
this into an ES6 class.
So we're gonna say class ShowCard,
>> Brian Holt: extends Component.
We're gonna have to import
component at the top,
>> Brian Holt: From React, okay?
We're gonna have a render method.
>> Brian Holt: And
that is going to return,
>> Brian Holt: That,
so return blah.
>> Brian Holt: Prettier
will fix my formatting for me.
And then it's going to have props
of,
>> Brian Holt: Props
is just gonna be Show I think like that.
>> Brian Holt: And cool.
And then here, wherever it says props
we're gonna have to say this.props.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, lint is gonna yell at
you because it should be
a sales function component,
whatever.
>> Brian Holt: Above props, I think,
we're going to say shouldComponentUpdate.
>> Brian Holt: So
in shouldComponentUpdate, you're gonna say
this is basically a method that instead
of doing React's diffing algorithm to
see if somethings changed between renders,
it's going to call your method,
and you're going to tell React
should you update or not.
In this particular case,
we have no state and
we don't expect the props to change for
any one individual ShowCard, so
how often do we want this
component to update its markup?
Never, we never want it to update.
So here you're just
gonna say return false.
>> Brian Holt: So this is telling us,
once this component has rendered for
the first time,
never update it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so now we're going to come over here,
refresh, so we have a fresh start of it,
and we're gonna start typing a bunch.
Atlanta and then black and
then game, okay?
And then now we're gonna say Perf.stop and
Perf.printWasted, much fewer things,
right?
We still have some in the header link,
but we're not gonna worry about that for
now.
>> Brian Holt: In any case,
we've mostly solved, well, we totally
solved our ShowCard problem, right?
We don't even see it show up anymore,
because it's not doing
that render anymore.
So I just gave you a really big hammer,
right?
shouldComponentUpdate, it's
a really big hammer.
I will say that I very rarely write
the shouldComponentUpdate components.
And it's not because I'm particularly good
at writing React or something like that,
I'm avoiding these cases.
Sometimes these cases are just inevitable,
right?
The issue here is let's
say I come back next week.
And I have some, now I need to have
showComponent also show the rating.
So it also needs to request from
the API or something like that, so
it's keeping track of state as well.
>> Brian Holt: So
as soon as I add state to this,
if I don't forget or if I forget to update
the shouldComponentUpdate,
it's never going to update, right?
Because I've told React now,
never update these components, right?
So it's very easy to write these
components that never update and
then have to go back later and update
them so they have to update themselves.
And unless you're aware that they have
a shouldComponentUpdate method on them.
It's a big foot gun cuz you're gonna go
and try and like change your code or you
can try and run it, and nothing's gonna
change and you'll be like, what the hell?
Why is this not updating anymore?
It's because you told it
not to update it anymore.
>> Brian Holt: So this is the most simple
use case and I'll also say that, as far
as I can remember, no, that's not true.
95% of shouldComponentUpdate
I've written look like this.
That's just returning false.
However, you can get only,
maybe only year is the thing that updates.
Maybe let's say rating, right,
let's say it has a rating.
Then you can say this.props.rating
is not equal to,
this a next props right here, I think.
nextProps.rating.
So you can do something that only
update if rating is updating, right?
And you can do that, so
you can kinda like shortcut the amount
of things that it needs to check, right?
But again, this is a really big hammer,
do not write shouldComponentUpdate
until you actually need them.
Do not prematurely optimize your code.
That's just a general piece
of life advise for coding.
Like do not prematurely update your
code or optimize your code but
in particular here, do not optimize
this until its actually needed.
So, return false.
>> Brian Holt: Cool,
so that is the perf tools.
Since we're not gonna
be using them anymore,
you can feel free to go into ClientApp and
remove them.
So that you're not including something
that you don't need in production.
The other thing is that because perf tools
are hooking into the internals of React,
it is going to make React
itself a little bit slower.
Actually, something else I
just wanted to show you.
I showed you printWasted cuz that's
the one that you actually care about.
But if I come in here and
navigate around a little bit,
come back and say, or
browse all, game, okay.
So now if I say Perf.stop.
>> Brian Holt: There
is two other methods on here as well,
there is Perf.printInclusive.
>> Brian Holt: So this
is going to print everything including
things that were not wasted, right?
So this is going to print timers for
everything including the life
cycle methods, right?
So you can see app is taking the most time
to render, but that makes sense because
app is literally everything,
it's the sum of everything, right?
But you can see here-
>> Speaker 2: That is over 60
milliseconds, then you're gonna
get some performance problems and
painting, right?
>> Brian Holt: This is a sum,
this is not a rate.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, but, so
it depends on how long you're
clicking around that will happened.
>> Speaker 2: It makes sense.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
But definitely if there are things
in here like for example, I mean,
again browser out of your expect that
cuz that's rendering everything out.
But let's say,
>> Brian Holt: Like here,
component.search, you can see here,
the one that's taking the most time,
the least performant component
that we have here is search.
It's still performant enough,
for sure by far, but
that isn't the least performant
component that we have.
And you can see here the hot code path
is the ShowCard inside of there, right?
That's taking most of the time
inside of search, but
that's just the nature of these,
because we're doing a lots of re-rendering
every time we're typing, right?
That just takes time.
So that's expected.
So that's inclusive, so
that includes life cycle methods.
If you're not interested to know
how much time the life cycle
methods are taking,
then you can say, exclusive.
Come on.
>> Brian Holt: There we go and
now this is exclusive
of life cycle methods.
>> Brian Holt: And all of the parent
components as well.
So you can see here the styled link right
now is the things that´s least performant.
That’s because it’s doing a bunch
of stuff with manipulating styles.
So styles components are not necessarily
the fastest React components.
They are typically fast enough though.
>> Brian Holt: Something
else that bears mentioning,
that with the advent of React Fiber just
around the corner,
these perf tools are going to,
these ones in particular are not
going to directly work with Fiber.
And that's just because these hook
into internal methods inside of React.
And so the way that Fiber
works is totally different.
So we will eventually get a different
set of perf tools for React Fiber.